Startetc 
**********

In this installation method you use a special papermerge command ``startetc``
to generate a bunch of configuration files in ``<papermerge-proj>/run/etc``
folder. Then only with one single command::

    systemctl --user start papermerge

you start a full fledged staging environment with nginx, gunicorn, one worker and recurring commands
running as services on a single machine. I really love this method and I use in my local development
environment. This method relies on systemd and its ``--user`` argument.

Package Dependencies
======================

You will need to install :ref:`os specific packages for webapp + worker <osspecific1>` first.
Then make sure that :ref:`PostreSQL is up and running <packages-and-db>`.

Make sure that your machine has both ``nginx`` and ``systemd`` available::

    nginx -V
    systemd --version


Web App
========

Clone main papermerge project::

    git clone https://github.com/ciur/papermerge papermerge-proj

Clone papermerge-js project (this is the frontend part)::

    git clone https://github.com/ciur/papermerge-js

Create python's virtual environment .env::

    cd papermerge-proj
    python3 -m venv .venv


Activate python's virtual environment::

    source .venv/bin/activate

Install required python packages (now you are in papermerge-proj directory)::
    
    # while in <papermerge-proj> folder
    pip install -r requirements.txt


Rename file *config/settings/development.example.py* to *config/settings/development.py*.
This file is default for DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE and it is included in .gitignore.

Adjust following settings in *config/settings/development.py*:

* :ref:`DATABASES <databases>` -  name, username and password of database you created in PostgreSQL
* MEDIA_ROOT - absolute path to media folder
* :ref:`STORAGE_ROOT`- absolute path to same media root, but with a "local:/" prefix

.. note::

    1. Make sure that ``data_folder_in`` and ``data_folder_out`` point to the same location.
    2. Make sure that folder pointed by ``data_folder_in`` and ``data_folder_out`` exists.

Then, as in any django based project, run migrations and create super user::

    cd <papermerge-proj>
    ./manage.py migrate
    ./manage.py createsuperuser

Run startetc command::

    ./manage.py startetc

Just out of curiousity, have a look ``<papermerge-proj>/run`` at folder generated by ``startetc`` command.
Folder ``<papermerge-proj>`` should have following structure::

    run
    ├── broker
    │   ├── data_in
    │   ├── data_out
    │   └── data_processed
    ├── etc
    │   ├── gunicorn.conf.py
    │   ├── nginx.conf
    │   ├── papermerge.env
    │   ├── pmworker.env
    │   ├── pmworker.py
    │   └── systemd
    │       ├── papermerge.service
    │       ├── papermerge.target
    │       ├── pm_nginx.service
    │       ├── pmworker.service
    │       ├── txt2db.service
    │       ├── txt2db.timer
    │       ├── update_fts.service
    │       └── update_fts.timer
    ├── log
    └── tmp

Systemd can be used to manage user services. For that --user flag is used.
User services must be referenced in ``~/.config/systemd/user`` folder. By the way,
`I made a video about systemd --user feature <https://www.django-lessons.com/lesson/lesson-12-system-for-python-developers>`_.

Create ``~/.config/systemd/user`` if you don't have it. Then reference (create symbolic links)
``<papermerge-proj>/run/etc/systemd/`` units in ``~/.config/systemd/user`` folder::

    cd ~/.config/systemd/user
    ln -s <papermerge-proj>/run/etc/systemd/* .

.. important::
    
    Path <papermerge-proj>/run/etc/systemd/* must be absolute.

Start papermerge::

    systemctl --user start papermerge.target
